We just took a look at authentication solution number one, where we had a reliance or dependency on
some central service.
We took a look at a slight variation of that where we had some central gateway that would essentially
block unauthenticated requests.
And we also had another one.
This was option number two, where we said that we were going to teach each service how to authenticate
an incoming request.
So now I really made it sound as though option number two was pretty great because we don't have any
dependency on any outside service.
So everything else inside of our application could crash and come down tumbling burned to the ground.
Absolutely.
But our order service is still going to work correctly.
That sounds great.
But yeah, there's definitely some downsides.
So let's understand what these downsides are.
Okay, so for just a minute, I want you to understand or imagine the following sequence of actions.
Let's imagine that some user comes to our application to sign in.
We are going to call them user ABC.
So this user ABC comes to our application to sign in through our authentication service, which at all
times is what we intended.
The authentication service at all times will be in charge of signing up and signing in.
That sign up sign in process is not related to this discussion of where we're going to put this logic
to decide if a user is authenticated.
So user ABC makes a request to sign in.
They supply some email and password.
We have some sign and logic where we're going to check that email and password against our stored ones,
including that whole hashing process and all that whatnot.
And in this scenario, we'll imagine that this user, ABC supplied the correct email and password.
So we say, hey, correct email, correct password.
Fantastic.
Here is a token to identify.
You include it on all follow up requests and this is what is going to identify you to the different
services inside of our application.
So we will send back a JSON web token, a cookie, whatever it is, who knows?
We send back something that this user can use to authenticate themselves with our different services.
So that's step one.
Now let's imagine that we are following fundamental option number two.
So that means that user ABC can take this JSON web token cookie or whatever and they can use it to do
just about anything inside of our application that is tied to authentication.
So they can use that thing that we just gave them to purchase a ticket or do whatever else.
And very critically, when they try to purchase a ticket, we are not going to go back out and communicate
to that authentication service.
We are just taking a look at that single JSON web token that this user has 100% control over.
So we're just going to take that thing and say, all right, is this thing valid?
Yeah, it is.
Okay.
You are signed in.
Fantastic.
So now we set the scene.
Let's now imagine what might happen after user ABC gets that identifying token.
So let's imagine that it turns out that user ABC is actually not the nicest person in the world.
Maybe it turns out that this is some malicious user.
Maybe it's some employee at our company who just got fired for doing something really nasty.
At any rate, let's imagine that we have some administrator user inside our application who urgently
needs to ban user ABC.
We need to make sure that user ABC cannot access any of our services anymore because we are very much
certain that this is a bad person who's going to do some nasty stuff to our application.
So we're going to imagine that admin user is going to submit a request once again to our authentication
service because hey, it makes sense to handle some stuff like banning user inside of an authentication
service.
So they're going to submit that request and they're going to specify the user to ban.
So we'll send that off to maybe some new request handler inside our authentication service related to
user management.
And inside there, we're going to have some code to say, okay, we want to ban user ABC.
Okay, got it.
Well, fantastic.
Let's go and update the database to reflect that this user is now banned.
And so even though we don't have any property like this tied to our user model, we can imagine that
maybe we would add in a property to our user model as restoring inside of MongoDB, build something
like has access or is banned or something like that.
Some flag to say whether or not this user is banned.
So in this case, because we are banning a user, maybe we would flip has access over to false.
So this user no longer should have access to our application.
So now in theory, part of our app, one of the services inside of our app says that user ABC is banned.
But what is really going on?
What happens if a user user ABC now makes a follow up request?
Well, let's imagine the flow.
What would really go on here?
So let's say that after being banned.
User ABC now makes a request to purchase a ticket once again.
And at this point, we've determined that user ABC is a bad person who knows what they're doing, but
we do not want them to get access to anything inside of our app.
So we would definitely, without a doubt want to reject this request.
But remember, user ABC still has that original JSON web token.
They still got that cookie.
It is 100% in their control.
We cannot somehow reach directly into their computer and tell them, Hey, you need to delete this thing
right away.
User ABC has 100% control of that token that proves that they are authenticated.
So what would happen when they now make a request to purchase this ticket?
Well, they would send that request in.
It would be going to our order service.
Our order service would have this ticket purchase logic.
We would check to see if this person is logged in.
So we would take that JSON web token, which is still 100% valid because we have not been able to tinker
with it at all because it's in control of user ABC.
So we would inspect that thing and decide if the user is authenticated and we would say, Yeah, they
are.
It's a valid token, no problem with it whatsoever because at no point in time did we go over to our
service and check to see if this user should have access.
We're 100% decoupled from this thing.
There's no coupling whatsoever.
We don't care what the audit service has to say.
So even though the service is 100% certain that this user should not have access to our application,
at no point using option number two.
Because remember, that's what we're discussing here.
At no point with option number two do we ever go over to that service to figure out whether or not this
person is still authenticated.
So that is the core issue with this approach.
Even though we get this fantastic separation of services, we don't have any dependencies.
There are still going to be scenarios where we try to update data in one location tied to a user status,
but all the other services are not going to hear about that update.
They don't know.
They don't have any logic to be told, Hey, this user is now banned or something like that because
there's no direct connection between the two.
That is the fundamental problem with option number two.
So hopefully now you can start to see why all this authentication stuff is a really nasty thing.
It is an unsolved problem.
There's no single solution out there.
That is just the right way to do it.
We have to pick the best way out of all the options we have available, and we can also try to figure
out some clever ways to work around some of these restrictions.
Okay.
So now that we see that handling the stuff is way more complicated than you might guess at first glance.
Let's take a pause right here.
We're going to come back the next video, and I'm going to tell you about the solution that we are going
to take, even though it still has some downsides.
So a quick pause.
Continue in just a minute.